=head1 OVERVIEW

RT adds help icons to various elements on pages throughout the application.
When the user clicks the help icon, a popup dialog will display useful information
related to that element.

The RT Help System can be used in a number of ways:

=over

=item *
It is used internally by RT for help topics that ship with RT

=item *
It can be used to modify or augment the help topics that ship with RT

=item *
It can be used by extension authors to provide help for their extensions in a uniform fashion

=back

=head2 How it works

Help content is managed as a collection of Articles in specially-designated Classes.
If a Class has the special C<"RT Help System"> custom field set to C<"yes"> then that Articles
in that Class are eligible to participate in the lookup of help topics. A second custom
field called C<"Locale"> will identify the language used by Articles in that Class.

When asked to display help for a particular topic, the RT help system will look for a
Class that has been tagged as C<"RT Help System"> and has a C<"Locale"> compatible with the
current user's language setting.

Assuming it finds such a Class, RT will look inside it for an Article with a Name matching
the help topic.

=head2 Sync vs Async

There are basically two modes of operation for the RT help system: synchronous and
asynchronous.

In synchronous mode, all of the help content is either retrieved or supplied directly on
the server side when the initial page is rendered. This means that the help content itself
is delivered to the browser.

In asynchronous mode, only the help topic is supplied when the page is rendered. Only when
the user clicks on the help icon is the help content dynamically retrieved from the server
and displayed in the popup dialog. See L</Async> for more details.

Both modes can be used interchangeably on the same page.

=head1 USAGE

The RT help system can be used at render time on the server. For example,
in a Mason template, you might use the `PopupHelp` template to annotate a
form field

    <label for="ticketId">Ticket Id</label>
    <& /Elements/PopupHelp, key => 'My Topic' &>
    <input type="text" name="ticketId" />

The RT help system can also be used at runtime on the client. For example,
you can also add the same help topic to every HTML element matching a certain
query. The following would associate a help topic to a specific button

    <script>
    jQuery(document).ready(function() {
        addPopupHelpItems( { "selector": "button#save-form", "title": "My Topic" } )
    })
    </script>

=head1 REFERENCE

There are three primary ways to use the RT Help System: 

=over

=item *
L</Mason Templates>

=item *
L</HTML Attributes>

=item *
L</JavaScript>

=back

Of course, you are also free to use the lower-level contsructs as well.

=over

=item *
L</Programmatic API>


=back

=head2 Mason Templates

Add a C</Elements/PopupHelp> component anywhere in a Mason template

    <& /Elements/PopupHelp, key => "My Topic" &>

This will render an empty HTML span element

    <span data-help="My Topic"
          data-content="The article contents"
          data-action="replace"
          style="display: none;"
    />

which will be picked up and processed on page load by the default "helpification"
rule when all of the accumulated rules are executed when C<renderPopupHelpItems> is
called (for example, in the C<Elements/Footer> component in the page footer).

If no valid help article named C<My Help Topic> is found, (see L</OVERVIEW>) or the
C<ShowInlineHelp> setting/user-preference is falsy the C<<span>> will be suppressed
altogether.

Because the help content has already been retrieved and sent to the client,
it will already be in the DOM and there should be virtually no delay when displaying
the help popup following a user click.

=head3 Example

To add help to a form field, a Mason template might create a help tag directly,

    <label for="ticketId">Ticket Id</label>
    <& /Elements/PopupHelp, key => 'My Topic' &>
    <input type="text" name="ticketId" />

or might create help tags dynamically based on a Custom Field called Category

    % while (my $ticket = $tickets->Next) {
    %   my $ctgy = $ticket->FirstCustomFieldValue("Category")
    <h1><% $ticket->Subject %></h1><& /Elements/PopupHelp, $key => $ctgy &>
    % }

=head2 HTML Attributes

Add C<data-help="My Topic"> and (optionally) C<data-content="The help content">
attributes to any HTML elements.

=over

=item * C<data-help>
Required. The name of the help topic. If C<data-content>
is omitted, content will come from an Article with this Name.
Used as the title of the popup dialog if C<data-title> is not supplied or if in
asynchronous mode. See L</Async>.

=item * C<data-title>
Optional. The title to use for the popup dialog box. If omitted, C<data-help> will
be used.

=item * C<data-content>
Optional. The help content. If omitted, asynchronous mode will be used to dynamically retrieve
the help content. See L</Async>.

=item * C<data-action>
Optional. The action to use when adding the help icon to the DOM. Defaults to C<"append">. See
L</Help Selector Rules> section for more details.

=back

=head3 Example

A Mason template might add the C<data-help> attribute to an element along
with some static help content that includes custom HTML

    <button data-help="Save Widget"
            data-content='Saves the <font color="red">Widget</font> to RT'
            data-action="after">Save</button>

Or we could omit the C<data-content> altogether to have RT return the help content from the
matching C<"List Sprockets"> Article when the user clicks the help icon

    <button data-help="List Sprockets" data-action="after">List</button>

=head2 JavaScript

Call C<addPopupHelpItems> to add one or more rules to the list of help topics on a page that
should be decorated with help icons.

The C<addPopupHelpItems> function populates the C<pagePopupHelpItems> array with a list of
declarative rules that define elements in the DOM that should have associated help icons. If
a rule's C<selector> key matches one or more elements, its C<action> key will 
determine where a help icon should be added to the DOM with help content corresponding to
the C<content> key or from a valid help article with the same name as the C<title> key.

Any rules thus added will be picked up and processed on page load when all of the accumulated
rules are executed when C<renderPopupHelpItems> is called (for example, in the C<Elements/Footer>
component in the page footer).

This includes the default rule

    { selector: "[data-help]", action: helpify }

which matches anything with a C<data-help> attribute and therefore powers the L</HTML Attributes>
method.

This method of using JavaScript allows for tremendous flexibly annotating the DOM with help items,
even after it has been rendered--perhaps by other templates altogether, making it attractive as a
mechanism for customers to annotate aspects of RT--however it has been installed for them, including
any and all extensions--simply by inspecting what is rendered to the browser and writing the
appropriate rules. Importantly, these rules can usually be added to I<one place> (e.g. in a page
callback somewhere) so they do I<not> need to overlay virtually every template in RT just to
add help icons throughout.

Note that C<renderPopupHelpItems> does not consider the C<ShowInlineHelp> setting/user-preference because
it is assumed that the server-side logic would already have omitted the JavaScript call altogether
(e.g. via the C</Elements/PopupHelp> component) if C<ShowInlineHelp> was unset.

=head3 Help Selector Rules

A help selector rule is a JavaScript object with the following keys

=over

=item * C<selector> - I<String | Function>

Required. Defines which DOM elements should receive a help icon. Can match 0, 1, or many elements.
Selectors matching 0 elements have no impact on the DOM.

=over

=item * I<String>
A JQuery selector string that defines the matching DOM elements

=item * I<Function>

A JavaScript function that will be passed an instance of the C<JQuery> object and should
return a JQuery collection of matching DOM elements. That is, the function signature
is C<function( jQuery ) { ... }>

=back

=item * C<title> - I<String | Array(String) | Function>

Optional. The help topic(s) that should be associated with the element(s) matching the C<selector>

=over

=item * I<String>
The name of the help topic that should be matched against the Article Name. If the C<selector>
matches exactly one element, this will be its help topic. If more than one element are
matched, they will all get this same help topic.

=item * I<Array(String)>
An array of help topic names. They will be applied in order corresponding to the elements
returned by the C<selector>

=item * I<Function>
A JavaScript function that will be called with the elements matched by the C<selector> that
should return the help topic for that element. That is, the function signagure is 
C<function( $els ) { ... }>

=back

=item * C<content> - I<String | Array(String)>

Optional. The help content to be displayed in the popup when the user clicks the help icon.

If missing, asynchronous mode is automatically triggered (see L</Async>)

=over

=item * I<String>
The help content. May contain HTML. Will be applied for all elements matched by C<selector>.

=item * I<Array(String)>
Each member of the array will be applied to each corresponding member of the array of 
elements matched by C<selector>.

=back

=item * C<action> - I<String | Function>

Optional. The action that should be taken with each help icon that results from the application
of C<selector>. Responsible for actually adding the help icons to the DOM. This controls, for
example, where the icon should be rendered relative to the matching DOM element.

If missing, C<"after"> is the default.

=over

=item * I<String>
A shortcut method for referencing a number of predefined action functions. The following values
are supported:

=over

=item * I<before>
The help icon will be prepended to the DOM I<before> the element(s) matched by C<selector>

=item * I<after>
Default. The help icon will be appended to the DOM I<after> the element(s) matched by C<selector>

=item * I<append>
The help icon will be appended to the end of the DOM element(s) matched by C<selector>

=item * I<prepend>
The help icon will be prepended to the beginning of the DOM element(s) matched by C<selector>

=item * I<replace>
The help icon will be inserted into the DOM I<in place of> the element(s) matched by C<selector>.
This action is used, for example, by the C</Elements/PopupHelp> Mason component.

=item * I<offset>
The help icon will be offset from the element(s) matched by C<selector> by the amounts 
communicated in C<actionArgs>. Works with the JQuery C<offset> method and takes an object
parameter with coordinate keys C<{ top: 10, left: 20 }>

=back

=item * I<Function>
A JavaScript function responsible for actually adding the help icons to the DOM. Will be called
for each element matched by the C<selector>. The function signature is C<function( $el, rule, actionArgs )>

=back

=item * C<actionArgs> - Array
Any additional arguments that should be passed to the C<action> function.

=back

=head3 Examples

Add a help topic named C<"My Topic"> to the DOM element with an id of C<"ticket-id">

    addPopupHelpItems(
        {
            selector: "#ticket-id",
            title: "My Topic"
        }
    )

Add a help topic named C<"Phone"> and custom HTML content to the DOM element with an id of C<"phone-nbr">

    addPopupHelpItems(
        {
            selector: "#phone-nbr",
            title: "Phone",
            content: "The customer phone number. This <i>MUST</i> include the country code."
        }
    )

Add more than one rule at a time

    addPopupHelpItems(
        { selector: "#ticket-status", title: "Status Topic" },
        { selector: "#ticket-queue",  title: "Queue Topic"  }
    )

Add a help topic named C<"A Note on Submitting Forms"> to every C<E<lt>buttonE<gt>> element
of type C<submit>.

    addPopupHelpItems( { selector: "button[type='submit']", title: "A Note on Submitting Forms" } )

Find every C<E<lt>divE<gt>> element with a C<"heading"> class, and add a help topic named 
C<"One"> to the first one, C<"Two"> to the second one, and C<"Three"> to the third one.

    addPopupHelpItems( { selector: "div.heading", title: [ "One", "Two", "Three" ]} )

Use a custom C<selector> function to match divs that have ids starting with C<"ACME-"> but only when 
not working locally in developer mode. Determine the article title from the matching ids by stripping
off the C<"ACME-"> portion

    var acmeDivs = function( jQuery ) {
        if (location.hostname != "localhost") {
            return jQuery("div").filter(function($el) { 
                return $el.id.startsWith("ACME-")
            })
        }
    }

    var makeTitle = function( el ) {
        return el.id.replace("ACME-", "")
    }

    addPopupHelpItems(
        {
            selector: acmeDivs,
            title:    makeTitle
        }
    )

Prepend help topics to all form radio buttons

    addPopupHelpItems(
        {
            selector: "form input[type='radio']",
            topic:    "Radio Button Help",
            content:  "You can only select one at a time",
            action:   "prepend"
        }
    )

Provide help for every field in each section on a ticket display page, but place each
help icon in a line at the top of its respective section. Use asynchronous mode for
help content, using the field text as the help topic.

    var sectionInsert = function( $els, rule, options ) {
        $els.each(function(i,el) {
            const $el = jQuery(el)
            const $a = $el.closest(".titlebox").find(".titlebox-title.card-header a")
            const fieldName = $el.text().replace(":", "")
            $a.append( buildPopupHelpHtml( fieldName ) )
        })
    }

    addPopupHelpItems(
        {
            selector: ".titlebox .card-body .form-row .label",
            action:   sectionInsert
        }
    )

=head2 Programmatic API

The following functions are part of, and used by, the RT Help System. You can also call them
directly from your code.

=head3 RT::Interface::Web::GetSystemHelpClass( locales )

Given a list of locales, find the best article class that has been associated with the
C<"RT Help System"> custom field. Locales are searched in order. The first Class with an
C<"RT Help System"> custom field and matching C<"Locale"> custom field will be returned.

=head3 RT::Interface::Web::GetHelpArticleContent( class_id, article_name )

Returns the raw, unscrubbed and unescaped C<Content> of an Article of the given Class.
Often, the class_id will come from C<GetSystemHelpClass>, but it does not have to.

=head2 Async

In asynchronous mode, only the help topic is supplied when the page is rendered. Only when
the user clicks on the help icon is the help content dynamically retrieved from the server
with a second AJAX request to which will attempt to fetch the given help article contents.
The contents are returned directly as an HTML fragment--that is, they are not wrapped in 
a C<<html>> tag, for example.

The AJAX call will be a request to C</Helpers/HelpTopic?key=MyTopic> which will return
the raw contents of the C<MyTopic> Article, which may contain HTML. It will not be sanitized.
If no valid C<MyTopic> help article exists (see L</OVERVIEW>), 

    <div class="text-danger">No help was found for 'MyTopic'.</div>

will be returned instead.

The C</Helpers/HelpTopic> component does not consider the C<ShowInlineHelp> setting/user-preference.
However, if C<ShowInlineHelp> is not set, the help icon would generally not have been rendered
anyway, so the AJAX call would never have been made.

Asynchronous mode does have the benefit of reducing the number of database calls that need
to be made to retrieve help article content on page request, but the user may experience a 
slight lag when the help icon is clicked and the AJAX request is being made. This will need
to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. On a heavily used RT system, the performance of pages
with many help topics may benefit from using asynchronous mode more generously.

=head1 NAMING

Since the RT help system uses the help topic as the key to find a corresponding Article, it
helps to have a somewhat predictable naming convention for help topics.

=head2 RT objects

In general, help topics for builtin RT functionality will be prefixed by C<"RT-">

=over

=item *
RT-{The Name}

=item *
RT-{Context}-{The Name}

=item *
RT-{Path/To/Page}-{The Name}

=item *
RT-MainMenu-{}-{}-...

=item *
RT-PageMenu-{}-{}-...

=back

=head2 User-defined objects

When you wish to dynamically create help topics based on the name of an object that the end
users create, the following naming conventions can serve as a guide

=over

=item *
User-Dashboard-{The Name}

=item *
System-Dashboard-{The Name}

=item *
CustomRole-{The Name}

=item *
SystemRole-{The Name}

=item *
CustomField-{The Name}

=item *
User-SavedSearch-{The Name}

=item *
{Group Name}-SavedSearch-{The Name}

=item *
System-SavedSearch-{The Name}

=back

=head1 DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS

Choosing synchronous vs asynchronous mode involves several tradeoffs already discussed in
L</Async>.

In synchronous mode, there are also tradeoffs in choosing whether to provide content directly
via the C<data-content> attribute or the C<content> property of a JavaScript help rule. It is
often convenient to provide the help directly, especially if it has to be constructed in order
to do so. However, this makes it much more difficult for end users to edit or customize the
help content (since it now lives in code instead of an Article). It also makes it more 
difficult to support multiple locales.

Help authors should choose the method that best balances these considerations for their
use case.

=head1 INTERNATIONALIZATION

The RT help system works with multiple languages by using Articles in Classes. Each Class should
have a different value for its C<Locale> Custom Field. All of the articles in that Class should
be in that language.

=head2 Adding a new language

=over

=item *
Add a Class (for example, via B<Admin E<gt> Articles E<gt> Classes E<gt> Create>). You can name
the Class whatever you want, but something like "Help - <language>" is probaby a good idea for clarity.

=item *
Associate it with the RT Help System. Find the "RT Help System" Custom Field (for example,
B<Admin E<gt> Global E<gt> Custom Fields E<gt> Classes>) and apply it to your new Class

=item *
Associate it with a language. Find the "Locale" Custom Field (for example,
B<Admin E<gt> Global E<gt> Custom Fields E<gt> Classes>) and apply it to your new Class

=item *
Set the language. Find your new Class (for example, B<Admin E<gt> Classes E<gt> Select>) and
set the "Locale" to your <language> in the dropdown

=item *
Add articles to your new Class

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report them to rt-bugs@bestpractical.com, if you know what's
broken and have at least some idea of what needs to be fixed.

If you're not sure what's going on, start a discussion in the RT
Developers category on the community forum at
<https://forum.bestpractical.com> or send email to
sales@bestpractical.com for professional assistance.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Devel
