=head1 Using widgets F<html/Widgets/Form*>

This widgets was implemented to address several common issues in handling
request arguments and allow developers to avoid reinventing the wheel.

=head2 General info

Each component shows widget by default and has two methods: Process and 
InputOnly. The first one method process arguments and return new value
of a parametr. The second one is helper that shows only form elements
with minimum of required text labels.

So you show a widget with:
    <& /Widgets/Form/Integer,
        Name => 'NameOfInputElement',
        Description => 'Input integer',
    &>

You can show only C<input> box using:
    <& /Widgets/Form/Integer:InputOnly,
        Name => 'NameOfInputElement',
    &>

In such a simple case you even can avoid processing. Yeah, most probably
you want to check if value is really integer, but these widgets don't
do validation for you, but they are more about fetching values from
hash of arguments, showing these values to user and preserving state
of value between form reloads (see below).

=head2 Processing

Processing is required when you use L<extended features|/Extendent features>,
such as Default, Multiple or Alternative.

To process arguments of a request you have to do the following:
    $ARGS{'NameOfInputElement'} = $m->comp(
        '/Widgets/Form/Integer:Process',
        Arguments => \%ARGS,
        Name      => 'NameOfInputElement',
    );

The method returns processed value in canonical form. For different widgets
a canonical form is different and depends on activated features, so you must
always activate the same features during showing a widget and processing
results.

=head2 Extendent features

=head3 Default value

If C<Default> argument is true then widgets expect that there is some
default value for argument if user fills nothing. 'Nothing' in each
widget is different, for example in select box it's special option
which is always the first one, in integer box string '' means empty
value, but boolean box uses radio buttons in this case with three
options: Yes, No and Default.

Each widget that supports C<Default> feature as well has C<DefaultLabel> and
C<DefaultValue> arguments.

=head4 Processing and showing with activated Default feature

When this option is activated then C<Process> method returns undef
value if user selected default value. So for integer box it's empty
string and so on.

As well when you show a widget you should pass undef as C<CurrentValue>
to inform widget that the current value is default one.

As all methods of a widget are consistent in this behaviour so you
shouldn't care much about that, but this allows you to implement
custom actions if processing returned undef, for example delete user's
preference record instead of updating it (default value may change later to).

=head4 C<DefaultValue> when C<Default> is not active

DefaultValue argument is still actual in the Process method even if
C<Default> is not true. This argument defines intial value. If value
of a key in Arguments is not defined then it's treated as intial state
and the method returns default value.

=head3 Multiple and Alternative

These options are only supported by the select widget.

TODO: Add more info

=head2 Implementation details

=head3 Boolean widget

This widget a little bit tricky. When you use Default option then
things are simple and you see three radio buttons, but in other
case we use a checkbox. But as you know browsers don't pass unchecked
boxes to server, so arguments of a request has no entry for them.

In the latter case it's hard to figure out case when user unselected
value. Imagine form with a checkbox, you want show it checked by
default and as well form is reloadable (like Reply forms that have
"Add Another File" buttons). User uncheck the box and then upload
file, in this case you want to show user's choice instead of default,
but browser doesn't send any value and you can not figure out if
it's initial state or page reload. To solve this problem we use magic
hidden input field with the same name as the box and value equal to
zero (0). Mason folds arguments with the same name into array refs, so
we get 0 if box is unchecked and [0, 1] if box is checked. An array
reference is true value and 0 is defined value so we know that it's
not initial state and avoid switching back to default. As well this
trick works good in a case when you want show a link to a page and
define default choice for some boolean argument, you don't need
to set argument twice, you just set it to true value (for ex. 1) and
things just work.

