=head1 Page Layouts

Page Layouts allow you to customize the arrangement and
visibility of elements on some key RT pages, like the ticket display
page and asset display page. This allows administrators to tailor the
interface on each queue or catalog for specific lifecycles and user roles.

=head1 Viewing Existing Page Layouts

As a SuperUser, you can view existing page layouts at Admin > Page Layouts,
selecting either Ticket or Asset.

=head1 Creating and Editing Page Layouts

To create a new custom layout, click Create in the page menu. A popup
allows you to name the new page layout, select the type and page,
and start from an existing layout, if desired.

When naming your page layout, keep in mind that you will be able to
use the page layout on multiple queues or catalogs. While you may
have a specific queue in mind, you might make the name a bit more
general so it still makes sense if you end up using it on multiple
queues.

=head2 Page Design

The page layout designer is similar to the layout pages for
L<dashboards>. Add rows, and for each row select the number of
columns you want. RT uses the L<Bootstrap grid system|https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/layout/grid/>,
so the column numbers must add up to 12. When you add columns, RT will
create equal-width columns, but you can change this to have columns of
all different widths.

=head2 Adding Widgets

To add widgets, drag them from the Available Widgets column on the left
and drop them in the columns on the right. Move them up and down in the list
by dragging. Remove widgets by clicking the X.

=head1 Advanced

The Advanced page shows the raw JSON of the current page layout. You usually
shouldn't need to make edits directly on the Advanced page. However, it can be
helpful if you want to transfer a page layout from one RT system to another.
You can copy the JSON from one system and paste it into the Advanced section
of another.

=head1 Applying Page Layouts

After creating a new page layout, you can apply it to one or more queues
or catalogs on the queue and catalog admin pages.

On the bottom of the queue basics page, you can set a page layout for the
ticket create, display, and update pages.

For assets, you can set a page layout for create and display.
