
=head1 INTRODUCTION

=head2 Basics

Users should be now have a new "RTFM" menu item RT's top level menu.
You will need to make some decisions about how to organize your
articles.  Articles will be organized into one Class and multiple
Topics.  They will use Custom Fields to store their article data.
These Custom Fields can be configured on a Class by Class basis.

=head2 Organization

=head3 Classes

Classes are equivalent to RT's queues.  They can be created by going
to RTFM -> Configuration -> Classes -> New Class.  Articles are
assigned to one Class.  When you create Custom Fields for use in RTFM,
they will be activated per Class, like Custom Fields are activated per
Queue in RT.  Each class also controls what information is included
into a reply (such as the RTFM header and footer) and the Article
hotlist.

=head3 Topics

You can also use Topics to organize your Articles.  While editing a
Class, there is a Topic tab for Class specific Topics.  You can create
global Topics from the Global tab under RTFM -> Configuration.

When editing Topics, type the name (and optionally description) of the
Topic, and then click the button at the appropriate location in the
Topic hierarchy. This should allow you to build a tree of Topics. This
tree of Topics should show up when creating or modifying articles in
the class. These can be arbitrarily nested.

Global Topics will be available for all Articles, regardless of their
Class.  Articles can belong to both global and class-specific Topics.

Articles topics can be set from the 'Modify' screen for the article --
simply select as many topics as you desire from the list at the bottom
of the screen.

=head2 Custom Fields

RTFM doesn't have a single "body" section for each
article. Everything is a custom field (except for name, summary and
some other basic metadata). So, you need to create some custom
fields to hold the Article body and other data.  These Custom Fields
should have "Applies To" be "RTFM Articles".

Once you've created your custom fields, go into your classes and click
on "Custom Fields" and add the Custom Fields you want to each class.
Alternatively, use the Applies To link from each Custom Field.

=head2 Creating Articles

You can create an article from scratch by going to RTFM -> Articles ->
New Article and then picking which Class to create the Article under.
The Summary, Description and Custom Fields will all be searchable when
including an Article and you can control what Custom Fields end up in
your Ticket from the Class configuration page.

=head3 Extracting an Article

You can extract the body of a ticket into an article. Within RT, you
should now see an "Extract to article" button in the upper right hand
corner of RT's UI when working with tickets. When you click that
button, RTFM will ask you which Class to create your new article in.
Once you click on a class name, the Ticket's transactions will be
displayed, along with a set of select boxes. For each transaction, you
can pick which Custom Field that transaction should be extracted to.
From there on in, it's just regular article creation.

=head2 Including an Article

When replying to or commenting on tickets or creating tickets, there
is a UI widget that lets you search for and include RTFM articles in
your reply.  (They're editable, of course).  

Articles can be included by searching for them, knowing the Id of the
article, using the Article Hotlist and using the Queue specific
dropdown.

=head2 Queue Specific List of Articles 

You can use Topics to organize a set of Queue specific Articles.
Simply create a global Topic called 'Queues' and then create Topics
under Queues named after each of your Queues.  Within each Queue named
Topic, create some Topics and then assign Articles to those
sub-topics.  This creates a hierarchy like this:

Queues
\-> General
    \-> Topic 1
    \-> Topic 2

If you are replying to a Ticket in the General Queue you will be
offered a choice of Topic 1 and Topic 2 along with the searching.
After choosing Topic 1 or Topic 2, you will be given a list of
relevant articles to choose.

=head2 Article Hotlist

If you enable "All articles in this class are on dropdown on ticket
reply page" option, there will be a dropdown on the Create or Update
page which allows users to quickly include Articles.

=head1 Configuration options

=head2 RTFM_Create

Set this to a true value to display the RTFM include interface on the
Ticket Create page in addition to the Reply/Comment page (Create.html
in addition to Update.html)

Please note, this only works with RTFM 3.8.1 or greater

=cut
