=head1 Automating Tasks in RT

As RT tickets are created, worked on, and resolved, there are sometimes
updates or notifications that have defined rules and could be automatic.
These might include increasing ticket priority over time so tickets don't
get lost, resolving old tickets that haven't had any activity for a period of
time, or sending email notifications based on some ticket criteria like
being 3 days old and still having a status of new.

The tool for automating RT tasks is L<rt-crontool>. It's designed to be
run from the cron scheduler and accepts a set of parameters that define
what RT objects it should operate on and what it should do. The sections
below describe some common L<rt-crontool> tasks as examples of the
different ways you can automate tasks.

All of the options for L<rt-crontool> are documented with the tool itself:

    $ perldoc /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool

and on the Best Practical web site.

=head2 Running C<rt-crontool>

As you'll see in the examples below, this tool gives full access to RT.
To manage the scope of changes that could be performed by the tool, we
recommended creating a dedicated unix user with limited privileges for
this purpose. Then create a user in RT with just enough access to
perform the changes you need to automate, and set the "Unix login" field
of the RT user to the username of the unix user you created. See the
L<rt-crontool> documentation for more information.

=head2 Testing Tips

When setting up a new automated crontool job, keep in mind that you might be
modifying a large number of tickets, especially the first time you run it.
Changes to tickets can trigger scrips just like the same change made via
the user interface. For example, changing the status to resolved will trigger
the 'On Resolve' scrips, which often means sending email. Depending on the
modification, you could end up sending a lot of email or triggering other
actions.

You can test your TicketSQL search queries in the RT web interface
(using the Advanced tab of ticket search), and use bulk update if you
want to prepare things for your new automated job. You can also disable
scrips which you wish to avoid, or turn off outgoing mail with the
L<RT_Config.pm/"$MailCommand"> option. This can be useful if you want to
clean up older tickets without sending notifications to requestors for
tickets that were resolved years ago.

To help with debugging, the C<--verbose> option will give you more output.
The C<--log> option accepts all of the valid log levels for RT and allows
you to change the logging level just for the automated job. While testing,
it's often convenient to set:

    --log debug

to see what's happening.

=head1 A Simple Search

Starting with a simple example, this command performs a search and
displays output, but doesn't do anything to the returned tickets.
This can be useful for safely testing search criteria.

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "Owner = 'root'" \
        --action RT::Action \
        --verbose \
        --log debug

The C<--search> argument sets the search module RT should use, in this
case L<RT::Search::FromSQL> which processes TicketSQL. The second
argument, C<--search-arg>, is the search query to use. These are
the same queries you create in the RT search interface, so can use
the RT web UI to refine your queries before setting up your job.

The C<--action> argument is set to L<RT::Action> which is the base class
for RT actions. Since this class doesn't perform any action itself, this
command will just output the results of the TicketSQL search.

=head1 Auto-resolve Aged Tickets

You can auto-set status based on any criteria you can define in
a TicketSQL statement. For example, this command will resolve all
active tickets that haven't been acted on in a month or more:

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "(Status != 'resolved' AND Status != 'rejected') \
                       AND LastUpdated <= '1 month ago'" \
        --action RT::Action::SetStatus \
        --action-arg resolved

The search is similar to the previous example with a slightly more
complicated search argument.  Note that since LastUpdated is treated as
a timestamp (which increases over time) C<LastUpdated <= '1 month ago'>
means "the timestamp when it was updated is before the timestamp one
month ago" and not "updated less than a month ago."

The C<--action> in this case uses the L<RT::Action::SetStatus> module
with an C<--action-arg> of C<resolved>.  For each of the tickets
returned from the search query, the status is set to resolved. When
setting up automated tasks, you can use actions provided as part of RT,
actions available from extensions, or actions you create yourself.

As noted previously, the normal RT rules apply when running actions
with L<rt-crontool>, so for this example applicable 'On Resolve'
scrips will run. If a ticket has unresolved dependencies, it will
log an error since tickets can't be resolved until dependencies are
resolved. Also, the status argument must be valid for the lifecycle of
the selected tickets, and the transition must be allowed.

=head1 Commenting and Corresponding on a Ticket

The following command records a comment on all tickets returned from the
query -- in this case, tickets that are new and unowned after 3 days.

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "Owner = 'Nobody' AND Status = 'new' \
                      AND Created < '3 days ago'" \
        --action RT::Action::RecordComment \
        --template 'Unowned tickets'

The L<RT::Action::RecordComment> action does just that, it records a
comment just like replying to a comment email or commenting in the
RT UI. It uses the global RT template defined by C<--template>, so you
could put whatever you like in that template. For example:

    Subject: {$Ticket->id} new and unowned
    RT-Send-Cc: support-backup@example.com

    Ticket {$Ticket->id} is still new and unowned after 3 days!

You can set up a similar command to send a reply rather than a comment
using the L<RT::Action::RecordCorrespondence> module.

=head1 Sending Notifications

While the example above sends notifications as a side-effect of recording
a comment, you can also send notifications directly.

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "(Status != 'resolved' AND Status != 'rejected') \
                      AND Queue = 'Project Work'" \
        --condition RT::Condition::Overdue \
        --action RT::Action::NotifyGroup \
        --action-arg 'project-manager@example.com' \
        --template 'Overdue task'

This example shows the C<--condition> argument and the
L<RT::Condition::Overdue> module, which returns true if the current
time (the time the cron job is running) is past the Due date on the
ticket. Like the C<--action> argument, you can use conditions
provided with RT, added from extensions, or conditions you have
created.

L<RT::Action::NotifyGroup>, despite the "Group" in the name, can accept a
bare email address or list of addresses as the action argument and it will
send mail to them. A combination of email addresses and group names separated
by commas also works. RT usernames are valid unless they conflict with group
names.

The action sends email, but unlike comment and correspond above, it
doesn't record a transaction in the ticket history.

=head1 Escalating Priority

RT has a built-in ticket priority system with priority values from
0 to 99. Depending on how you configure your queues, you can set 1 as the
top priority with lower numbers meaning more important, or 99 can be the
top priority with higher numbers meaning more important. You can set this
in your queue configuration at Tools -> Configuration -> Queues. On the queue
configuration page, set "Priority starts at" and "Over time, priority moves
toward".

Whichever scheme you choose, RT's L<RT::Action::EscalatePriority> can
escalate the priority over time so tickets that are closer to their due
date and are still not resolved have priority escalated automatically.

This command escalates tickets in a designated queue:

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::ActiveTicketsInQueue \
        --search-arg "General" \
        --action RT::Action::EscalatePriority

The C<--search-arg> is the name of the queue in which to escalate tickets.
As shown in previous examples, you can also set your criteria using a
TicketSQL query as well:

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "(Status='new' OR Status='open') AND Due > 'Jan 1, 1970'" \
        --action RT::Action::EscalatePriority

This example will find new and open tickets in all queues, but will skip tickets
with no explicit due dates set. Maybe you only want to bump the priority on tasks
that have to be done by a certain date.

L<RT::Action::LinearEscalate> is an alternative escalation module that
handles the "Due date not set" condition for you. It also offers some
configuration options to control whether a transaction is recorded on the
ticket and whether LastUpdated is modified.

=head1 Transactions

Many actions and conditions are also used in RT in scrips and may require
a transaction in addition to a ticket. For such cases, L<rt-crontool>
provides a C<--transaction> argument to designate a transaction. Valid
values are C<first>, C<last>, and C<all> and these are relative to the
current ticket being processed. C<first> and C<last> are the first and
last transaction on the ticket. Be careful with the C<all> option since
it will run the action on all transactions for the ticket.

Since actions and conditions can be used in different contexts, you
may need to provide a transaction object even if it doesn't seem
necessary for your automated job. If you're seeing errors about
a missing transaction, setting C<--transaction> to C<first> or
C<last> is usually safe and will resolve the error.

You can also target specific transaction types with C<--transation-type>.
This argument accepts one or more transaction types as a comma-separated
list.

Using these options together, you can set up a command that sets the
appropriate transaction object for your conditions and actions. For
example, if you had an action you wanted to perform based on the content
of the last reply on stalled tickets, you could do something like:

    /opt/rt4/bin/rt-crontool --search RT::Search::FromSQL \
        --search-arg "Status = 'stalled' AND Queue = 'General'" \
        --action RT::Action::CheckLastCorrespond \
        --transaction last \
        --transaction-type Correspond


=cut
