=head1 Introduction

GnuPG and S/MIME can encrypt and sign messages in email before the
user's MUA sends the mail. The mail recipient can decrypt the message
and verify the sender's signature on the message in their MUA. The
sender and recipient must install each other's public keys to exchange
these messages.

When a GnuPG or S/MIME user sends a message to multiple recipients,
they must have installed all of the recipients' public keys. Each of
the recipients must have installed the sender's key to verify the
message.

RT can use GnuPG and S/MIME to decrypt, encrypt, sign, and verify mail
as an intermediary. Unlike the workflows described above, senders and
recipients only need to install the RT instance's public key. Instead
of encrypting a message to the final mail recipients, a sender only
needs to encrypt the message to the RT instance's key. RT will decrypt
and verify the message. Then, RT will encrypt the message to each of
the ticket's watchers individually and sign the message with its own
key.

This document describes how to implement an RT workflow using GnuPG or
S/MIME to protect the content and integrity of messages in email.

=head1 Background

=head2 What encrypted mail does

TLS encrypts the IMAP, POP, and SMTP connections from users' MUAs to
mail servers. It also encrypts the SMTP connections between mail
servers. This prevents entities like ISPs from eavesdropping on email
in transit between at any point between users' email clients. But TLS
does not prevent mail servers from eavesdropping on email messages. It
also does not protect mail from man-in-the-middle attacks against TLS
connections.

GnuPG and S/MIME protect messages in email while it is in transit
between the individual users' email clients and while email is at rest
on a mail server. Mail servers cannot read the messages in encrypted
mails that they relay or store.

GnuPG and S/MIME only protect messages in email. They cannot hide mail
headers.

RT can store the encrypted messages as they were received and decrypt
them on display. Or RT can decrypt the messages on receipt and store
the decrypted content.

=head2 How encrypted mail works

GnuPG and S/MIME both use public key cryptography. Each user must have
a private key and a public key for their own identity. And each user
must have a public key for every person they exchange encrypted mail
with.

Users encrypt messages to public keys. They decrypt mail encrypted to
their own public key with their private key.

Users sign messages with their private keys. They verify other users'
signatures with those users' public keys.

RT has its own set of keys, like any other encrypted mail user. RT
must have at least one public and private key pair. It must also have
the public keys for any email addresses that RT users want to exchange
encrypted mail with.

=head2 How GnuPG and S/MIME are different

=head3 GnuPG background

GnuPG does not depend on a trusted authority to distribute or verify
keys. Users can install any public key from any source and decide how
much they trust that key. But it is up to the user to verify the
authenticity of that key.

RT administrators must manage RT's GnuPG keyring manually.

=head3 S/MIME background

S/MIME depends on a trusted authority to verify the authenticity of
other users' public keys.

...

RT administrators must install the trusted authority keys, certificate
authorities, that sign the keys of users that want to communicate with
it.

=head1 Using encrypted mail with RT

When two encrypted mail users communicate directly with each other,
they must each have a collection of encryption keys. Each user must
have a public key and a private key for their own identity. And they
must have the other user's public key.

When three encrypted mail users communicate directly with each other,
they must each have public and private keys for themselves. And each
of them must have the public keys for the other two users.

Encrypted mail in RT operates differently. Instead of communicating
directly with each other, RT acts as a mail intermediary. Users
encrypt messages to RT's key. RT decrypts those messages. Then RT
re-encrypts the messages to all mail recipients for that ticket. Users
receive encrypted mail from RT, not the original sender.

Users sign messages with their private key to send to RT. RT verifies
those signatures. Then RT signs the message with its own key and sends
it to all mail recipients for that ticket.

When encrypted mail users communicate with each other through RT, each
of them must have RT's public key. They do not need each others'
public keys. Only RT must have every user's public key.

=head2 An example

=head3 The story of Alice and Bob.

=head3 The story of Alice, Bob, Carol, and Faythe

=cut
