=head1 The Self-Service Interface

Unprivileged users do not have access to the normal RT interface; instead,
they are restricted to a subset of the interface under the SelfService
directory tree.

By default, the self-service interface simply presents a "Tickets"
menu that allows the user to see his or her open or closed tickets.
(Additional menus may be enabled by giving unprivileged users
additional rights.)

It is possible to configure RT to present a self-service-specific dashboard
to unprivileged users instead of just the default menu interface.
Setting this up will be described in the rest of this document.

=head2 Configuration Items

The following configuration items control the self-service dashboard interface.

=over 4

=item * L<RT_Config/SelfServiceUseDashboard> enables the self-service
dashboard iterface if set to 1, or disables it (defaulting to the
simple menu interface) if set to 0.

=item * L<RT_Config/SelfServicePageComponents> is a list of components
that are allowed to be placed into the self-service dashboard.

=item * L<RT_Config/SelfServiceArticleClass> is an article class
that should be shown to self-service users.  Note that you I<also>
have to set permissions on the article class for unprivileged
users to see articles in that class.

=back

=head2 Creating the Self-Service Dashboard

To create the self-service dashboard, the configuration item
C<$SelfServiceUseDashboard> must be set to 1.  This enables
a menu item Admin > Global > Self-Service Home Page.  Select
this item to edit the self-service dashboard.

The self-service dashboard interface is just like any other
dashboard editor; see L<dashboards> for more details.

Once you have created the self-service dashboard, self-service users
will see the components on the dashboard when they log in.  Please note
that you I<also> need to give self-service users the appropriate
rights to be able to use the components you place on the self-service
dashboard; these rights are not automatically granted simply by virtue
of the components being placed on the dashboard.
