=head1 Sending and Receiving SMS in RT

Using available extensions it is possible to send and receive SMS
messages in RT.

=head1 Sending SMS

=head2 Install SMS::Send

The L<SMS::Send|https://metacpan.org/pod/SMS::Send> module can be
installed from CPAN:

    sudo cpan -i SMS::Send

=head2 Install SMS::Send Driver

Choose one of the SMS::Send drivers to install, eg L<SMS::Send::Twilio|https://metacpan.org/pod/SMS::Send::Twilio>:

    sudo cpan -i SMS::Send::Twilio

=head2 Install RT::Extension::SMSNotify

The L<RT::Extension::SMSNotify|https://metacpan.org/pod/RT::Extension::SMSNotify>
module can be installed from CPAN:

    sudo cpan -i RT::Extension::SMSNotify

=head2 Configure RT::Extension::SMSNotify

Set config options for RT::Extension::SMSNotify in your RT_SiteConfig.pm:

    Plugin("RT::Extension::SMSNotify");
    Set( $SMSNotifyProvider, 'Twilio' );
    Set(
        $SMSNotifyArguments,
        {
            _accountsid => 'ABC123',
            _authtoken  => '123qwe',
            _from       => '+19998675309',
        }
    );

See the documentation for your SMS::Send driver for the arguments
required when calling the SMS::Send->new method. The same arguments
will be required for the $SMSNotifyArguments config variable, with the
exception of the name of the driver.

=head2 Clear your mason cache

    rm -rf /opt/rt5/var/mason_data/obj

=head2 Restart your web server

Z<>

=head2 Create a Scrip to send SMS messages

RT::Extension::SMSNotify adds 5 new Scrip Actions you can use to create
a L<Scrip|https://rt-wiki.bestpractical.com/wiki/ManualScrips> to send
SMS messages from RT:

=over

=item * [SMSNotify] SMS Queue and Ticket AdminCcs plus Owner

=item * [SMSNotify] SMS Queue and Ticket AdminCcs

=item * [SMSNotify] SMS Ticket AdminCcs

=item * [SMSNotify] SMS Ticket All Contents

=item * [SMSNotify] SMS Ticket and Queue Cc/AdminCc ignoring shifts

=back

Look at the descriptions for details of who the actions send SMS
messages to. If the description is not clear you can look at the
Parameters to pass to see exactly who will get the SMS message.

The SMSNotify actions require a L<template|https://rt-wiki.bestpractical.com/wiki/Template>
to send the SMS message. It should be a plain text template.

=head2 Sending SMS with rt-crontool

See the documentation for using L<RT::Extension::SMSNotify|https://metacpan.org/pod/RT::Extension::SMSNotify#Use-with-rt-crontool> with L<rt-crontool|https://rt-wiki.bestpractical.com/wiki/UseRtCrontool>.

=head1 Receiving SMS

=head2 Install RT::Extension::SMSWebhook::Twilio

It is possible to receive SMS messages in RT using Twilio via
L<RT::Extension::SMSWebhook::Twilio|https://metacpan.org/pod/RT::Extension::SMSWebhook::Twilio>.

Read the documentation for the extension to see how to use it to
receive SMS messages using Twilio.
