=head1 Tracking Time on Tickets

All tickets have fields to track time associated with work on that
ticket. The core fields are Time Estimated, Time Worked, and
Time Left. If you don't work with time on tickets, you can remove
the Time portlet and hide the time features.

Users can add time in the Time portlet on tickets in the
"Add to time worked" section, and RT will record the time submitted,
when it was added, and who added it. Users can also record a specific
day for when the work was done, for example recording work time from
Monday even though it is Wednesday. The date defaults to "today".

Users can record time on the ticket update page when adding
a comment or reply. Tickets also have stopwatch icon in the page
menu that opens a timer. You can let the timer run while working
on a task, then submit the time with an optional comment when done.

The Time portlet on tickets show "Total Time Worked", which is a sum
of all time on the current ticket, plus time on linked child tickets.
If you don't want linked tickets to add time to this field, use a
different link type, like Refers To. "Time Worked By User" breaks
recorded time down by user.

=head1 My Week Tool

The page available at Tools > My Week shows a summary of all of your time
tracked for the week by day. In addition to showing you your week, you can track
time directly on the page as well for whichever day you need to. You can add new
tickets and time below each day using the ticket box.

The Ticket selection box has autocomplete functionality, so you can just
start typing something from the subject of a ticket to find it. And you can
update tickets already in your list with the boxes in the Update column.

The total hours for the week are displayed at the bottom of the page.

=head2 Fixing Mistakes

If you accidentally add time for the wrong day or ticket, you can subtract it
by entering a negative value on the ticket for that day.

=head2 Viewing Other Weeks on My Week

You can view other weeks on My Week by selecting any day in the desired week using
the date picker at the top of the page. You can also use the Previous and Next
links to move from week to week.

=head2 Administrative View

RT provides some administrative features to viewing and managing time for other
users. To use these features, users must be granted the "AdminTimesheets" right
which can be found at Admin > Global > Group Rights on the Rights for Administrators
tab.

Once you have this right, you'll see an addition selection box at the top
of the My Week page for selecting a user. You can then use the autocomplete
box to find another user and display their timesheet.

This allows managers to see timesheets for their team and also
add time if another user is out of the office sick or otherwise can't add time
themselves. All entries made by an admin user on another user's timesheet
are recorded as entered by the admin user. This keeps an audit trail to avoid
confusion over who may have added a time entry.

=head1 Reporting on Time Worked

A report called "Time worked from search" is available in the Reports menu.
This report displays time recorded on tickets in a specified interval, like a
week or a month. It accepts an initial ticket search query, which you can create
and refine in the Query Builder. Once the search finds the correct tickets, you
can copy the query from the Advanced tab. Often a query can be as simple as the
id for a parent ticket of a project, like id = 1234. Check "Include All Children"
to list time for linked child tickets in the results.

This report is useful if you need to provide a log of work for billable hours
or any other regular reporting on where time has been spent on tasks.

